Add introduction slides of `epi_slide` (#43)
cmu-delphi/insightnet-workshop-2024: slides/day1-afternoon.qmd

1. Correlating signals across location or time 
1. Computing growth rates
1. Detecting and removing outliers

> 1. Applying computation with rolling window 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Calculating summaries with rolling windows
```

```

## Features -- sliding computation on a `epi_df`

> * Many aggregations on panel data applies some function to a rolling window of data. 
> 
> * By sliding the window, we could apply function to different parts of the snapshot. 
> 
> * For example, trailing average is often used to smooth out noises in individual data points.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is often useful to compute rolling summaries of signals. 

* These depend on the reference time, and are computed separately over geographies (and other groups). 

* For example, a trailing average can smooth out daily variation.
```

* In `epiprocess`, this is achieved by `epi_slide()`.

```{r epi-slide-example-call}
#| echo: true
#| eval: false

epi_slide(
  .x,
  .f,
  ...,
  .window_size = NULL,
  .align = c("right", "center", "left"),
  .ref_time_values = NULL,
  .new_col_name = NULL,
  .all_rows = FALSE
)
```

> As an example, we show how we can use `epi_slide` to compute a trailing 7-day average. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, we can use `epi_slide()` to compute a trailing 7-day average. 
```

## Features -- sliding computation on a `epi_df`

* The simplest way to use `epi_slide` is tidy evaluation. 

* For a groupped `epi_df`, `epi_slide()` applies the computation to groups [separately]{.primary}. 

```{r, grouppped-df-to-slide}
#| echo: false

cases_edf <- cases_df |>
  group_by(geo_value) |>
  as_epi_df()

```

```{r epi-slide-tidy-eval}
#| echo: true

cases_7dav <- epi_slide(
  .x = cases_edf,
  cases_7dav = mean(raw_cases, na.rm = TRUE),
  .window_size = 7,
  .align = "right",
  .ref_time_values = NULL,
  .new_col_name = NULL,
  .all_rows = FALSE
)
```

```{r epi-slide-tidy-eval-display-result}
#| echo: false

cases_7dav |>
  arrange(geo_value, time_value) |>
  group_by(geo_value) |>
  slice_min(time_value, n = 2) |>

>   as_tibble() |>
>   print()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```

## Features -- sliding computation on a `epi_df`

`epi_slide` also accepts custom functions of a certain form. 

```{r epi-slide-custom-fucntion-mandatory-form}
#| eval: false
#| echo: true

custom_function <- function(x, g, t, ...) {
  
  # Function body
  
}
```

* `x`: the data frame with all the columns with original object [except]{.primary} groupping vars. 
* `g`: the one-row tibble with values of gropping vars of the given group. 
* `t`: the `.ref_time_value` of the current window. 
* `...`: additional arguments. 

> ## Features -- sliding computation on a `epi_df`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features -- sliding a computation on an `epi_df`
```

```{r slide-apply-custom-function}
#| echo: true
#| code-line-numbers: "|9-17"

> custom_function <- function(x, g, t, ...) {
> 
>   result = data.frame(cases_7dav = mean(x$raw_cases, na.rm = TRUE))
> 
>   return(result)
> 
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
mean_by_hand <- function(x, g, t, ...) {
  data.frame(cases_7dav = mean(x$raw_cases, na.rm = TRUE))
}
```

> cases_mean_custom_f = epi_slide(
>     .x = cases_edf,
>     .f = custom_function,
>     .window_size = 7,
>     .align = "right",
>     .ref_time_values = NULL,
>     .new_col_name = NULL,
>     .all_rows = FALSE
> )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cases_mean_custom_f = epi_slide(
    .x = cases_edf,
    .f = mean_by_hand,
    .window_size = 7,
    .align = "right",
)
```

```

```{r epi-slide-custom-function-display-result}
cases_mean_custom_f |>
  arrange(geo_value, time_value) |>

>   slice_min(time_value, n = 2) |>
>   as_tibble() |>
>   print()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  slice_min(time_value, n = 2)
```

Epidemiology data gets revised frequently.

* We may want to use the data [as it looked in the past].{.primary} 
* or we may want to examine [the history of revisions]{.primary}.
:::

## `epi_archive`: Collection of `epi_df`s

Subset of daily COVID-19 doctor visits (Optum) and cases (JHU CSSE) from all U.S. states in `archive` format:

```{r archive-ex}
#| echo: true
archive_cases_dv_subset_all_states |> head()
```

## Features -- sliding computation over `epi_df`s

* We can apply a computation over different snapshots in an `epi_archive`.

```{r}
#| echo: true
#| eval: false

epix_slide(
  .x,
  .f,
  ...,

>   .before = Inf,
>   .versions = NULL,
>   .new_col_name = NULL,
>   .all_versions = FALSE

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

)

```

> This functionality is very helpful in version aware forecasting. We will return with a concrete example. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This functionality is critical for version aware forecasting, as we will see.
```

> ## Features -- revision analysis helper function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features -- summarize revision behavior
```

* `revision_summary()` is a helper function that summarizes revision behavior of an `epix_archive`.

```{r epiprocess-revision-summary-demo}
#| echo: true
#| eval: true

revision_data <- revision_summary(
  archive_cases_dv_subset,
  case_rate_7d_av,
  drop_nas = TRUE,
  print_inform = FALSE, # NOT the default, to save space
  min_waiting_period = as.difftime(60, units = "days"),
  within_latest = 0.2,
  quick_revision = as.difftime(3, units = "days"),
  few_revisions = 3,
  abs_spread_threshold = NULL,
  rel_spread_threshold = 0.1,
  compactify_tol = .Machine$double.eps^0.5,
  should_compactify = TRUE
)
```

> ## Features -- revision analysis helper function

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Features -- summarize revision behavior
```

```{r epiprocess-revision-summary-results}
#| echo: true

head(revision_data)
```

> ## Revision pattern visualization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Visualize revision patterns
```

```{r create-snapshots-of-data}
#| echo: false
#| eval: true

versions <- seq(as.Date("2020-07-01"), as.Date("2021-11-30"), by = "1 month")
max_version <- max(versions)

> snapshots <- map(versions, function(v) {
>   res = epix_as_of(archive_cases_dv_subset_all_states, v) |>
>     mutate(version = v)} |>
>   filter(geo_value %in% c("ca", "ut"))) |>
>   bind_rows() |>
>   mutate(latest = version == max_version) 

Reviewer: Check that this change works. It's hard to see what function is being mapped in the current.

```suggestion
snapshots <- map(versions, \(v) {
  epix_as_of(archive_cases_dv_subset_all_states, v) |>
    mutate(version = v) |>
    filter(geo_value %in% c("ca", "ut"))
  }) |>
  bind_rows() |>
  mutate(latest = version == max_version) 
```

3. [**Model & Prediction**]{.primary}: Fit a linear model to predict cases based on %CLI, trained on a 30-day rolling window.

> 4. [**Nowcast Execution**]{.primary}: Use `epix_slide` to nowcast the cases dynamically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. [**Nowcast Execution**]{.primary}: Use `epix_slide()` to nowcast the cases dynamically.
```
